>> Brian Holt: Let's do form actions.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're actually going to go implement this.
So, this is a future disclaimer
to people watching this course.
If you're watching today with me,
just follow along with me.
But if you're watching the course,
I need you to do something to make sure
that you get the right version of React.
So go to wherever your server
is running or your testing.
I'm gonna cancel my testing here.
And I need you to do npm info react, and
you'll see here what the tag is for,
what the current is.
You can see the current
as of today is 18.13.1.
If this says 19, then just do npm
install react@19 and you are good to go.
So npm install react@19,
and react-dom@19 and
you should be good to go here, right?
If you're following and
it does not say that,
it says 18 still,
just take a look down here at rc.
And so mine is here,
you can see mine's 19.0.
So that's what I'm gonna do today.
So I'm gonna do npm install react@rc and
react-dom@rc.
>> Brian Holt: And you might even
have to force it or did mine go okay?
It gives you a ton of warnings
because react query a bunch of
these things are like,
I only support react 18.
They take a lot of care to not break
stuff, so our stuff should work,
but just be aware that you're into kind
of dangerous waters now by being on
a release candidate instead
of something stable.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
just be extra cautious here, or
if you don't wanna mess with it,
just feel free to follow along with me.
So most of web development, in my opinion,
is a form, or revolves around a form.
It's mostly just taking user data and
doing something within kind
of being reactive to it.
Or, in other words,
you really can't get away from doing
a lot of forms as a web developer.
So the React team kinda took that
to heart, and they're like, okay,
let's make forms extra
easy with react-dom.
So, let's just make our
mutation function inside
of contact.lazy.jsx a little bit simpler.
>> Brian Holt: So right now, we have to
do this stuff with prevent default and
create the form data, and
then we can do all this kinda stuff.
But let's make this a little bit simpler.
Go to your form down here,
where I have this onSubmit function and
you wanna change this to action.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: And then this is gonna do
all of this funny stuff here for you.
So you can just delete these top two
lines and turn this "e" into formData.
>> Brian Holt: No, I'm just kidding.
Obviously, it's a pretty simple thing.
But it's just a nice little nicety.
However, we're doing this inside of
React query, so we wouldn't do this.
But then you get into a function body and
you can start doing things
like "use server" in here.
And then you can just kind of implicitly
handle all the data on the server,
and that ends up being a really
nice interface to accept data,
send to the server, the server
then saves to the database, right?
>> Brian Holt: That's really quite it.
>> Brian Holt: So, that's it for contact.
Let's go do this for order as well.
So this is a form as well.
So we're gonna go down to our form and
have all this stuff here.
I think we really only need to
grab the setCart out of here.
So I'm just gonna grab that and
I'm gonna make another function
here called function addToCart().
>> Brian Holt: Put that setCart in here,
and
then this is just gonna
be action=.
>> Brian Holt: Again,
it just got a little simpler, right?
A little bit easier to read,
reads a little bit better,
so yeah, I'm a big fan of this.
Yeah, and
to give you a better example of this,
imagine I came in here and
I had done "use server".
And now I can do something like
sql INSERT INTO cart, blah, blah,
blah, and do all of my stuff on the server
that inserts into the database.
I remember when next, kind of first
started talking about this, and
people started raging, is like,
why are you doing SQL in the browser?
I was like, we're not, right?
It's okay,
this is all happening on the server.
But seeing React components together with
SQL really just set some people off.
It's not just, like, making this
a little bit simpler to read,
they also do some other stuff that make it
a little bit easier to work with as well.
So I'm gonna show you one of them.
So I want you to head over to contact and
we're gonna import at the top here.
>> Brian Holt:
from 'react-dom', not React,
make sure that you're putting
the dash dom there because
this is gonna... Forms are particular to the DOM,
right?
They're not necessarily gonna be in
React Native, or React-three, or
something like that.
So that's why this comes from react-dom.
And what's cool about this is
we have some sort of child
component here like this
function ContactInput.
And we're gonna say return just input.
This is kind of a contrived example,
but you could see.
Imagine you have a input that's
a part of your design system and
has a bunch of CSS around it and
has complex errors and complex validation,
you would have some sort of
component that does this, right?
Using form status, we can actually check
to see if the form submitting is pending,
which is useful, or submitted.
So we're gonna say disabled=, and
we'll get that from our form status.
We have name=.
Let's get props coming in here as well.
Type= and
placeholder=.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and now we
would need this pending thing, and
it's really cool all we have to do is
say const  = useFormStatus().
It doesn't have to have any really
concept of where the form is coming from.
It can be super buried component,
component,
component way down in there
because React knows where it is.
It's gonna say, you're in a form and
this form is pending,
so you are disabled, right?
And now we just have to put this up here.
I think you can literally just change this
to be ContactInput and type="text".
And this one I think I can just
literally just say ContactInput,
and it's good to go.
This will work, right?
Cuz now whenever I submit this form,
imagine this takes a long time,
we don't want people to be typing
in there while it's pending.
Anyway, suffice to say,
this still makes sense and
it's still kinda cool
that useFormStatus.
You can pull that in,
despite the fact that this has no
concept of where it's being rendered in.
That's kinda the point of
useFormStatus.